>> Rodriguez: So I wanted to end up
just going through some of the tools,
some of the resources that I found
really helpful as I've gotten deeper and
deeper into email design development.
And remind you of a couple of things that
you should keep in mind as you start
progressing and
in this journey of email development.
The first one is really
about testing your emails.
Obviously, I have work for litmus.
I used litmus for a long time for
years before I joined the company.
There are other services out there.
Regardless of what you do, what service
you end up using, I would highly recommend
that you test all of your email
campaigns before you send them.
We saw earlier that chart that had
the Gmail's on Android and iOS, and
Outlook on Android and iOS.
Over a three month period, they made
45 updates between them that could
potentially break your email campaigns.
And that's just stuff we knew about.
So like webmail clients, a lot of times
will push updates to their service.
It's that continuous integration.
You're constantly updating those
clients and your apps and services.
And all those updates could potentially
break your email campaigns.
So regardless what you're doing,
using some sort of testing service
is essential as an email developer.
Litmus gives you close to 100 different
email clients you can test in.
We have a code editor that
allows you to test in there.
If you're not using a dedicated service
still send yourself test emails.
So I know there is a question around,
how do you send an HTML email?
So if you can, get your hands on an email
service provider like MailChimp or
Campaign Monitor, Salesforce Marketing
Cloud, IBM Watson, whatever you
happen to be using that'll allow you to
send these test campaigns to yourself.
If you can't get your hands on that,
if your company kinda locks that down to
your manager or somebody else on the team,
there's this website called
puts mail.com litmus.
It started before litmus, we acquired it.
We keep it running.
It allows you to add up
to ten email addresses so
you could have different email
addresses for Outlook or AOL or Gmail.
You can add those in there,
you add a subject line,
you dump your code in there and
then you can send that test campaign.
So if you're not using a dedicated service
to test across all these different
clients, at least set up as many free
test addresses as you possibly can.
Send yourself those email campaigns,
interact with them and
see how they work in those
different e-mail campaigns.
Cuz that'll allow you to make sure you're
not sending these broken emails to your
subscribers, creating these really
terrible experiences that nobody enjoys.
And hopefully you won't
get marked as spammers or
something like that with your subscribers.
Troubleshooting is,
I know there are a couple of questions
about how you determine what works where.
Is there a good reference for
figuring out where these things
are working across these email clients?
This one is brand new.
It got released,
I think a week or two ago.
It's called Caniemail.com.
So similar to the HTML version can I use
which is a massively valuable resource.
Caniemail.com allows you to either look
through a list of features in CSS and
HTML and see where there
supported crafts these clients.
Or you can search for them.
So we can look at what
that looks like here.
I think I have it pulled up, yep.
So Caniemal.com, so
something like font-face.
If you're using web fonts,
you would include that using the app
font-face property inside of your CSS.
You can quickly see that its supported
in Apple Mail, no surprise there.
It's not supported in Gmail.
Has limited support in Outlook.
That limited support means that it doesn't
show the Web Fonts but it will by default
fall back to Times New Roman, regardless
of what your fallback fonts happen to be.
There is some fixes for that.
But you can see where these
things are supported.
You can see any notes about the rendering
support across those email clients.
And then there is even links to
resource about actually implement that.
So this is a super helpful,
brand new thing that just got rolled out.
You can go in if you're wondering if
media queries work across email clients.
You can see that Apple Mail,
they work beautifully.
Gmail has a couple of limitations.
And then the Outlook's no surprise.
The older versions of Outlook, or
the desktop versions of Outlook,
don't work very well with media queries.
So it's a super handy resource.
I would definitely suggest checking
that out and bookmarking it
because it's one of the quickest
ways to figure out what works where.
Similar to that Campaign Monitor
has maintained this for, god,
over a decade at this point.
It's campaignmonitor.com/css.
And again, this goes through and lists.
It's not quite as searchable or
easy to use as caniemail.com, but
it's still really useful and
it goes a little bit more in depth to
what properties it actually tests out.
But if you go over there you can see
different types of the email campaign.
So you can look at,
sorry I'm gonna go back to,
we'll go to beginning here,
different aspects.
So whether or
not style in the head is supported,
whether style in the body is supported.
Different selectors,
different media queries on different
properties that you're testing for.
How different types of fonts or
SVGs are supported.
It's a really in-depth way to look
at what's supported across these
e-mail clients.
So you can pop open each of those
see where it's supported on desktop,
mobile and web mail.
But this has been kinda the go to resource
for most email developers over the years.
It started out small,
it's been growing and they've been,
they did a good update of
this maybe about a year ago.
It's this new design that's pretty
easy to use and find what you need.
I think you can search through here.
But I do like I have to say like that,
this kind of view this caniuse.com
type view that caniemail calm has.
>> Rodriguez: Freshinbox.com is a blog
that's run by a guy in the industry named
Justin Khoo who does a lot
of work to help document,
especially around interactive
email what you can and can't do.
So fresh and box.com resources
is another great tool for
you to see what supported where
he calls a kinetic email.
It's another term for interactive email.
So he has this chart that looks
at the different properties.
We would use when building
interactive emails.
So things like CSS transitions or
animation.
The checked pseudo selector, where
forms are supported things like that,
to show you can reliably make these
interactive e-mail campaigns.
He has a couple of notes too
which are helpful to figure out
how troubleshoot some of those issues.
One of the great things
too is that he has.
All these examples and different
techniques listed so if you want to look
at how to do a hamburger menu,
but he has that code available.
He has a description or
a tutorial about how to implement
something like a hamburger menu.
So Freshinbox.com is
another great resource for
figuring out specifically where
interactive emails are supported.
And then seeing more examples of
interactivity inside of email campaigns.